Khatushyam

Khatushyam is a temple situated in sikar district of Rajasthan,India. In Hinduism, Khatushyam is a name and manifestation of Barbareek, grandson of Bhim and son of Hidimba. This manifestation is especially popular in the Indian state of Rajasthan and Haryana. The original Sanskrit name Barbarīka is often replaced in Rajasthan by the Hindi version, Barbarīk, often written as Barbareek.

In the Skanda Purana, Barbareeka, Baliyadev (IAST Barbarīka) was the son of Ghatotkacha and Maurvi, daughter of Daitya Moor, a Yadava king.,[1] though other references state he is a Warrior from the South. Barbarika was originally a yaksha, and was reborn as a man. He was bound by his principle of always fighting on the losing side, which led him to stand witness to the battle of Mahabharata without taking part in it. In Nepali culture Kirata King Yalamber of Nepal is portrayed as Barbarika while Native of Kathmandu Valley portrait him as Akash Bhairav.[2]

In Rajasthan, he is worshiped as Khatushyamji, and In Gujarat, he is worshiped as Baliyadev is believed to have been sacrificed before the Mahabharata war to ensure the victory of his grandfathers, the Pandavas. In return for his sacrifice, he was deified by a boon given by Krishna.


Contents
1	Other names
2	Barbarika (Belarsen) and his dialog with Krishna
3	Krishna's leg
4	The other interpretation of three arrows
5	Act of charity
6	Bearing witness to the war
7	Observances and festivals
8	See also
9	References

Other names
Barbarika: Khatushyam's childhood name was Barbarika. His mother and relatives used to call him by this name before the name Shyam was given by Krishna.
Sheesh Ke Daani: Literally: "Donor of Head"; As per the legend related above.
Haare Ka Sahara: Literally: "Support of the defeated"; Upon his mother's advise, Barbarika resolved to support whoever has less power and is losing. Hence he is known by this name.
Teen Baan Dhaari: Literally: "Bearer of three arrows"; Reference is to the three infallible arrows that he received as boon from God Shiva. These arrows were sufficient to destroy the whole world. The title written below these three arrows is Maam Sevyam Parajitah.
Lakha-datari: Literally: "The Munificent Giver"; One who never hesitates to give his devotees whatever they need and ask for.
Leela ke Aswaar: Literally: "Rider of Leela"; Being the name of his blue-coloured horse. Many call it Neela Ghoda or "blue horse."
Khatu Naresh: Literally: "The King of Khatu"; One who rules Khatu and the whole universe.
Kalyug ke Avtaar: Literally: "The God of Kaliyug"; As per Krishna he will be the God who will save good people in the era of Kalyug.
Shyam Pyarey: Literally: "The God who love all and all love to him, the spiritual relation between bhakt and bhagwan called nishkaam pyaar/prem "
Baliya Dev: Literally: " Dev with super power; newly born children are blessed in the temple located in Vasna, Ahmedabad, Gujarat.
Morechadidharak: Literally:"The bearer of stick made of peacock feathers"
Shyam Baba
Barish Ka Devta( At Kamrunag Mandi Himachal Pradesh )
Yalambar
